# GettingCleaningDataProject
Final project for the Getting and Cleaning Data Coursera course

The run_analysis.R code is a way to get aggregate-level data from the Human Activity Rcognition Using Smartphones
Data Set used in the Getting and Cleaning Data Coursera course final project.  Included in the repo is also a copy
of the text file generated by the code.

The overall goal of the script is to read in all relevant data, and then aggregate the mean and standard deviation
data from multiple different measurements for each subject for each specific activity.  The steps followed by the code
are as follows:

<ol>
<li>Reads in the data that has previously been downloaded and unzipped.  The full data set, labels, and subject IDs
  for both the test and train set are loaded in, as well as a copy of the features table.  Please see the code book for
  more information on these specific tables.</li>
<li>The y_train.txt and y_test.txt files include information on the specific activity that was being measured, but it is
  in numerical format, not usable to us.  The script replaces these numbers with the actual names, i.e. "Walking",
  "Standing", "Sitting", etc.</li>
<li>Because we are only interested in mean or standard deviation measurements, we keep only these variables.  This is
  accommplished by the "grep" command in R and the "select" command in the dplyr package.</li>
<li>The activity labels and subject IDs are then added as a new column in the data set.</li>
<li>Finally, the tidy data set is created by using the "tbl_df", "group_by" and "summarise_each" commands available
  in the dplyr package.</li>
</ol>
